>> Eric: So, we left off on the pros and
cons of distributed services and
why they're helpful, why they're not.
Let's talk about the use cases now.
So, distributed service-oriented
architecture is really great for
at least a few of the ones
that I'm gonna be mentioning.
But to be honest with you, I encourage all
of you to apply these principles and these
designs to your own challenges or your
own projects that you're trying to do.
Like I said, it's not just
like a one-size-fits-all here.
I'm not telling you that your best
opportunity of creating an e-commerce
platform is because it's
a service-oriented approach, right?
Even Amazon started as a monolith, right?
It's about understanding where you are and
understanding where you wanna be, right?
So in a distributed service-oriented
design, e-commerce platforms can
be very beneficial to use backend system
architectures that are distributed.
They often need to handle a high volume of
transactions and user interactions which
can efficiently manage throughout
independent microservices.
Now, this is a little bit
spoiler when we get to it, but
this is exactly what Amazon did.
[LAUGH] This is exactly why Amazon is so
powerful.
Is because they slowly started decoupling
these systems giving them to different
teams, and now Amazon is a multi-billion
whatever dollar company,
I don't even know what they're worth now,
but they're worth a lot.
And a big reason for that is coz
they moved fast with microservices.
They realized where
their bottlenecks were.
They gave those teams those ownerships,
and
then they were able to
iterate really quickly.
Another company that was
able to do that is Netflix.
That's another reason why both of these
platforms have such good user experiences
around them.
How many times have you seen
Amazon's storefront go down?
>> Eric: Exactly.
And that's why you keep using it.
It's kinda the quote from the Social
Network, if anyone has seen that movie,
I would imagine most of us had, where,
what's his name, playing Zuckerberg's
character is, do you know what the most
important part of the system is?
Not going down.
Anytime we go down,
we lose customer confidence.
And that's true especially when you're
talking about something that is you wanna
buy and sell items, or you wanna have
a social network or something like that.
If you go down,
you lose the confidence of the user.
And I'm sure each of us here
have dealt with websites or
other platforms that went down once and
you're, I'm not gonna use this again.
Once, that's all it takes, one time,
and you lose a user, right?
So distributed systems can help with that,
especially if you wanna make sure that you
have high availability, high uptime, and
have good processing within your systems.
As I just mentioned,
social media platforms are also
really beneficial to this too.
The various functionalities like posting,
messaging,
notifications can be divided
into separate microservices.
For example, every time you get
a notification on Facebook or TikTok or
whatever, those are all more than
likely handled in the background
asynchronously under through
massive distributed systems so
that those don't block other
interactions on the platform.
Like posting,
you don't want to have to wait for
a post because a notification
is being sent out, right?
And so decoupling those systems makes
it a lot easier to have a more social,
real-time experience, right?
Also streaming services.
So Twitch, Twitch is a microservice and
service-based company.
A lot of the things that provide things
like the streaming capabilities to what
you guys are watching right now
on Twitch is a specific part
of the infrastructure that
processes just the video feed.
You don't want your video being
interrupted by processing requests
on the front end, right?
And so that's why they decouple
these systems and make it so
that they can run independently,
so that they can also work on them
independently, scale them independently.
And in all honesty, scaling video is
a much different beast than scaling
normal HTTP transactions and
things like that.
So it helps with the architecture and
the design of
what you're trying to approach or
trying to do.
I think overall kind of consensus here
is if you're doing a lot of stuff.
If your platform is doing a lot of things,
then microservice and
service distribution or
architecture could be valuable to you.
Because you don't wanna have one system
impact the performance of another system,
which impacts your user experience, right?
So this is why some of the biggest
things out right now, like e-commerce,
again, Amazon, social media platforms
like Facebook or whatever else.
And streaming services like Twitch and
YouTube have these separations and
these different logical
components is to make it so
that they can scale to the amount
of people that are using them.
Twitter as well, I guess,
[LAUGH] I'll mention Twitter.
[LAUGH] One other thing is
also online gaming platforms.
Now I wanna note with this one, and
why I'm not directly including these,
because I know for a fact that there
are a lot of game developers potentially
watching right now that would go,
that is not accurate.
If you're building a game server
that's gonna go to one service and
you're not wrong, right?
You're not wrong, however,
you can build a distributed gaming
platform and it could be beneficial if so.
Even games like what World of Warcraft or
highly MMOs,
multiplayer games,
things that require a lot of servers and
a lot of different regions and
sharding and things like that.
Those do require distribution still
because of the scale that they're trying
to produce for.
And so that is equally its own challenge
of how do you synchronize game state
across services?
How do you make sure that users go to the
right most local server to be able to have
the best player experience?
But they're still distributed in the sense
that they're separating like game logic
from player data from real-time data
interactions and stuff like that.
So even games like Call of Duty, right,
things like that will have a certain
level of distribution in how they work.
But I wouldn't be surprised
if gaming platforms still had
monoliths in specific places
that make sense, right?
Right, okay, cool, yeah.
Just to make sure.
Cuz again,
if you're talking about a video game,
movements are requests to the server.
Every time you move that's a request,
every time you shoot something,
that's a request, every time you do
whatever, that's a request as well.
And scaling that vertically versus
horizontally can be easier to do,
especially if you're trying to
make sure performance is key.
Also, large-scale IoT systems, so
this is something that's kind of
really getting out in the world.
We still haven't really
fully gotten comfortable yet
with IoT systems, but
yeah, any kind of device or
sensor type can be managed
by a dedicated microservice.
If you've ever been curious
about like Alexa and
its system, it's very distributed.
And it's also very microservice-oriented
because of the interactions and
how they happen.
They utilize things like
serverless as well for that.
So each interaction is in its own
nice service or serverless function.
And so again, we're talking about scale,
the key overall theme here is scale,
right?
You're doing a lot, you're working with
a lot, and so distributed services
can really help with that if that's
what you're trying to solve for.